= Premailer README

=== What is this?

For the best HTML e-mail delivery results, CSS should be inline. This is a 
huge pain and a simple newsletter becomes un-managable very quickly. This 
script is my solution.

* CSS styles are converted to inline style attributes
  Checks <tt>style</tt> and <tt>link[rel=stylesheet]</tt> tags and preserves existing inline attributes
* Relative paths are converted to absolute paths
  Checks links in <tt>href</tt>, <tt>src</tt> and CSS <tt>url('')</tt>
* CSS properties are checked against e-mail client capabilities
  Based on the Email Standards Project's guides
* A plain text version is created
  Optional


=== Installation

Download the Premailer gem from RubyGems.

    sudo gem install premailer

=== Example
  premailer = Premailer.new('http://example.com/myfile.html', :warn_level => Premailer::Warnings::SAFE)

  # Write the HTML output
  fout = File.open("output.html", "w")
  fout.puts premailer.to_inline_css
  fout.close

  # Write the plain-text output
  fout = File.open("ouput.txt", "w")
  fout.puts premailer.to_plain_text
  fout.close

  # Output any CSS warnings
  premailer.warnings.each do |w|
    puts "#{w[:message]} (#{w[:level]}) may not render properly in #{w[:clients]}"
  end

=== Contributions

Contributions are most welcome.  Premailer was rotting away in a private SVN repository for too long and could use some TLC.  Fork and patch to your heart's content.  Please don't increment the version numbers, though.

A few areas that are particularly in need of love:
* Testing suite
  There were unit tests but they were so funky that it was better to just strip them out.
* Create a binary file for easing command line use, allowing the output to be piped in *nix systems
* Test with Rails
* Move un-repeated background images defined in CSS to <tt><td background=""></tt> for Outlook
* Correctly parse http://www.webstandards.org/files/acid2/test.html

=== Credits and code

Thanks to {all the wonderful contributors}[https://github.com/alexdunae/premailer/contributors] for their updates.

Thanks to {Greenhood + Company}[http://www.greenhood.com/] for sponsoring some of the 1.5.6 updates, 
and to {Campaign Monitor}[http://www.campaignmonitor.com] for supporting the web interface.

The web interface can be found at {premailer.dialect.ca}[http://premailer.dialect.ca].

The source code can be found on {GitHub}[https://github.com/alexdunae/premailer].

Copyright by Alex Dunae (dunae.ca, e-mail 'code' at the same domain), 2007-2011.  See LICENSE.rdoc for license details.
